# Chapter 1: Values, Types, and Operators

* 6 value types: number, strings, Booleans, objects, functions, & undefined values.
    - numbers:
        + you can write them in scientific notation (eg. 3.1e10 = 3.1 x 10^10)
        + `-Infinity` & `Infinity` (special behavior)
        + `NaN` (Not a Number)


### Operators

* Binary operators vs unary operators
    - Binary operators use two values (eg. 2 < 3)
    - Unary operators only use one value
* `typeof ____` will return the type of whatever is placed in the blank
    - an example of a unary operator

##### `?`: The Conditional Operator

* `?` is the only ternary operator in JS. It operates on three values
    - it's format: `true ? 1 : 2`
* the Boolean value picks which value will be chosen;
    - if it's true, the value on the left is chosen (1)
    - if it's false, the value on the right is chosen (2)


### Automatic Type Conversion

* __type coercion__: when you use an operator on an incorrect value, or something like null/NaN/undefined, JS follows rules and returns a value that may be unexpected
* _false_: the following are considered equal to false when using operators resembling `==`
    - 0, NaN, '' (empty string)
* If you don't want automatic type conversion to occur, use `===`, `!==`, etc


# Chapter 2: Program Structure

### Variables

Define multiple variables like this:
```javascript
var x = 1, y = 2;
```

* __environment__: the collection of variables and their values that exist at a given time
    - never empty b/c there're always default variables that the browser uses


### Functions

* functions are invoked, called, applied, or executed.

##### `prompt` and `confirm`

Assign these to variables in order to get the value that the user inputs

`confirm` will return a Boolean whose value depends on whether the user clicks 'OK' or 'Cancel.'

```javascript
confirm("Do you want to continue?");
```

`prompt` takes in a string from the user. The second value is the text that'll sit in the input box.

```javascript
prompt("What is your name?", "[Name here]");
```


### Control flows

* Usually a program flows in one path
* You can have a conditional flow where flow changes based on if/else if/else statements, as well as while/do/for loops and switch statements.


# Chapter 3: Functions

### Defining a function

You can set a function to a variable. But you need to define the variable that holds the function prior to using the variable/function.
```javascript
var variabley = function(x) {
    return x;
}

console.log(variabley(10)); // 10
```

If you want to be define functions wherever you desire, you can use the function declaration that you find most familiar:
```javascript
function foo() {
    // bar
}
```


* a `return` statement w/o any expression will make the function return `undefined`


### Parameters and scopes

__lexical scoping__: setting a variable's scope so it can only be called/referenced from the code block in which it's defined

You can use free-standing blocks! They won't create a new scope. 
```javascript
var foo = 3;

{
    var bar = 0,
        bar0 = 1,
        bar1 = 2;
}
```


### Call stack

* When running through the "main program," the computer needs to jump from the main program to the functions being called. And it needs to remember its position.
    - __call stack__: the place where the computer stores this context


### Optional arguments

When you pass too many arguments into a function, it'll ignore the excess. When you pass too few, it'll assign `undefined` to the missing arguments.

You can leverage this behavior by writing something like this:

```javascript
function foo(base, multiple) {
    if (multiple == undefined)
        multiple = 2;
    return base * multiple;
}

foo(4); // 8
```


### Closure

* __closure__: being able to reference a specific instance of local variables in an enclosing function

Example the book gives:
```javascript
function wrapValue(n) {
    var localVariable = n;
    return function() {return localVariable};
}

var wrap1 = wrapValue(1); // console.log(wrap1()); --> 1
var wrap2 = wrapValue(2); // console.log(wrap2()); --> 2
```

You can utilize closures like this:
```javascript
function multiplier(factor) {
    return function(number) {
        return number * factor;
    };
}

var twice = multiplier(2);
console.log(twice(5)); // 10
```


### Recursion

Recursion with functions (which is 10x slower than a loop):
```javascript
function power(base, exponent) {
    if (exponent == 0)
        return 1;
    else
        return base * power(base, exponent - 1);
}

console.log(power(2, 3)); // 8
```
