# Chapter 1: Values, Types, and Operators

* 6 value types: number, strings, Booleans, objects, functions, & undefined values.
    - numbers:
        + you can write them in scientific notation (eg. 3.1e10 = 3.1 x 10^10)
        + -Infinity & Infinity (special behavior)
        + NaN (Not a Number)


### Operators

* Binary operators vs unary operators
    - Binary operators use two values (eg. 2 < 3)
    - Unary operators only use one value
* `typeof ____` will return the type of whatever is placed in the blank
    - an example of a unary operator

##### `?`: The Conditional Operator

* `?` is the only ternary operator in JS. It operates on three values
    - it's format: `true ? 1 : 2`
* the Boolean value picks which value will be chosen;
    - if it's true, the value on the left is chosen (1)
    - if it's false, the value on the right is chosen (2)


### Automatic Type Conversion

* __type coercion__: when you use an operator on an incorrect value, or something like null/NaN/undefined, JS follows rules and returns a value that may be unexpected
* _false_: the following are considered equal to false when using operators resembling `==`
    - 0, NaN, '' (empty string)
* If you don't want automatic type conversion to occur, use `===`, `!==`, etc


# Chapter 2: Program Structure

### Variables

Define multiple variables like this:
```javascript
var x = 1, y = 2;
```

* __environment__: the collection of variables and their values that exist at a given time
    - never empty b/c there're always default variables that the browser uses


### Functions

* functions are invoked, called, applied, or executed.

##### `prompt` and `confirm`

Assign these to variables in order to get the value that the user inputs

`confirm` will return a Boolean whose value depends on whether the user clicks 'OK' or 'Cancel.'

```javascript
confirm("Do you want to continue?");
```

`prompt` takes in a string from the user. The second value is the text that'll sit in the input box.

```javascript
prompt("What is your name?", "[Name here]");
```


### Control flows

* Usually a program flows in one path
* You can have a conditional flow where flow changes based on if/else if/else statements, as well as while/do/for loops and switch statements.

